Documentation~/reference-command-line.md, before:

# Running tests from the command line

It’s pretty simple to run a test project from the command line. Here is an example in Windows:

```bash
Unity.exe -runTests -batchmode -projectPath PATH_TO_YOUR_PROJECT -testResults C:\temp\results.xml -testPlatform PS4
```

For more information, see [Command line arguments](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/CommandLineArguments.html).

## Commands

### batchmode 

Runs Unity in batch mode and ensures no pop-up windows appear to eliminate the need for any human intervention.

### forgetProjectPath

Don't save your current **Project** into the Unity launcher/hub history.

### runTests

Runs tests in the Project.

### testCategory

A semicolon-separated list of test categories to include in the run. If using both `testFilter` and `testCategory`, then tests only run that matches both. This argument supports negation using '!'. If using '!MyCategory' then no tests with the 'MyCategory' category will be included in the run.

### testFilter

A semicolon-separated list of test names to run, or a regular expression pattern to match tests by their full name. This argument supports negation using '!'. If using the test filter '!MyNamespace.Something.MyTest', then all tests except that test will be run.

### testPlatform

The platform you want to run tests on. Available platforms are **EditMode** and **PlayMode**. 

> **Note**: If unspecified, tests run in Edit Mode by default.

Platform/Type convention is from the [BuildTarget](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/BuildTarget.html) enum. Supported platforms are:

* StandaloneWindows
* StandaloneWindows64
* StandaloneLinux64
* StandaloneOSX
* iOS
* Android
* PS4
* XboxOne

### assemblyNames

A semicolon-separated list of test assemblies to include in the run.

### testResults

The path where Unity should save the result file. By default, Unity saves it in the Project’s root folder.

### playerHeartbeatTimeout

The time, in seconds, the editor should wait for heartbeats after starting a test run on a player. This defaults to 10 minutes.

### runSynchronously

If included, the test run will run tests synchronously, guaranteeing that all tests runs in one editor update call. Note that this is only supported for EditMode tests, and that tests which take multiple frames (i.e. `[UnityTest]` tests, or tests with `[UnitySetUp]` or `[UnityTearDown]` scaffolding) will be filtered out.

### testSettingsFile 

Path to a *TestSettings.json* file that allows you to set up extra options for your test run. An example of the *TestSettings.json* file could look like this:

```json
{
  "scriptingBackend":2,
  "Architecture":null,
  "apiProfile":0
}
```

#### apiProfile

The .Net compatibility level. Set to one of the following values:  

- 1 - .Net 2.0 
- 2 - .Net 2.0 Subset 
- 3 - .Net 4.6 
- 5 - .Net micro profile (used by Mono scripting backend if **Stripping Level** is set to **Use micro mscorlib**) 
- 6 - .Net Standard 2.0 

#### appleEnableAutomaticSigning

Sets option for automatic signing of Apple devices.

#### appleDeveloperTeamID 

Sets the team ID for the apple developer account.

#### architecture

Target architecture for Android. Set to one of the following values: 

* None = 0
* ARMv7 = 1
* ARM64 = 2
* X86 = 4
* All = 4294967295

#### iOSManualProvisioningProfileType

Set to one of the following values: 

* 0 - Automatic 
* 1 - Development 
* 2 - Distribution iOSManualProvisioningProfileID

#### scriptingBackend

 Set to one of the following values:

- Mono2x = 0 
- IL2CPP = 1 
- WinRT DotNET = 2

Commit message:

com.unity.test-framework@1.1.22 ## [1.1.22] - 2021-01-21 - Fixed issue where test result of an explicit test was set to skipped in case it was passing and running from command line with testfilter set to the explicit test (DS-1236). - Fixed an issue where tests located in assemblies that did not directly reference any test assemblies were not included (DSTR-30). - Fixed an issue where UnitySetup methods were incorrectly being rerun when entering playmode, rather than being skipped (DSTR-68). - Internal: Remove ##utp message AssemblyCompilationErrors (DS-1277) - Fixed issue where if the timeout was exceeded in SetUp the timeout exception was not thrown(DSTR-21). - Removed ability to `Enable playmode tests for all assemblies` from the TestRunner UI, since it is a deprecated behavior. It enforces to use of assembly definition files (DSTR-45). - Fixed typo in `LogAssert.cs` documentation.
## [1.1.21] - 2021-01-14
- Fixed issue where test result of an explicit test was set to skipped in case it was passing and running from command line with testfilter set to the explicit test (DS-1236).
- Fixed an issue where tests located in assemblies that did not directly reference any test assemblies were not included (DSTR-30).
- Fixed an issue where UnitySetup methods were incorrectly being rerun when entering playmode, rather than being skipped (DSTR-68).
- Internal: Remove ##utp message AssemblyCompilationErrors (DS-1277)
- Fixed issue where if the timeout was exceeded in SetUp the timeout exception was not thrown(DSTR-21).
- Removed ability to `Enable playmode tests for all assemblies` from the TestRunner UI, since it is a deprecated behavior. It enforces to use of assembly definition files (DSTR-45).

Documentation~/reference-command-line.md, after:

# Running tests from the command line

It’s pretty simple to run a test project from the command line. Here is an example in Windows:

```bash
Unity.exe -runTests -batchmode -projectPath PATH_TO_YOUR_PROJECT -testResults C:\temp\results.xml -testPlatform PS4
```

For more information, see [Command line arguments](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/CommandLineArguments.html).

## Commands

### batchmode 

Runs Unity in batch mode and ensures no pop-up windows appear to eliminate the need for any human intervention.

### forgetProjectPath

Don't save your current **Project** into the Unity launcher/hub history.

### runTests

Runs tests in the Project.

### testCategory

A semicolon-separated list of test categories to include in the run. A semi-colon separated list should be formatted as a string enclosed in quotation marks, e.g. `testCategory="firstCategory;secondCategory"`. If using both `testFilter` and `testCategory`, then only tests that match both are run. This argument supports negation using '!'. If using '!MyCategory' then no tests with the 'MyCategory' category will be included in the run.

### testFilter

A semicolon-separated list of test names to run, or a regular expression pattern to match tests by their full name. A semi-colon separated list should be formatted as a string enclosed in quotation marks, e.g. `testFilter="Low;Medium"`. This argument supports negation using '!'. If using the test filter '!MyNamespace.Something.MyTest', then all tests except that test will be run.

### testPlatform

The platform you want to run tests on. Available platforms are **EditMode** and **PlayMode**. 

> **Note**: If unspecified, tests run in Edit Mode by default.

Platform/Type convention is from the [BuildTarget](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/BuildTarget.html) enum. Supported platforms are:

* StandaloneWindows
* StandaloneWindows64
* StandaloneLinux64
* StandaloneOSX
* iOS
* Android
* PS4
* XboxOne

### assemblyNames

A semicolon-separated list of test assemblies to include in the run. A semi-colon separated list should be formatted as a string enclosed in quotation marks, e.g. `assemblyNames="firstAssembly;secondAssembly"`.

### testResults

The path where Unity should save the result file. By default, Unity saves it in the Project’s root folder.

### playerHeartbeatTimeout

The time, in seconds, the editor should wait for heartbeats after starting a test run on a player. This defaults to 10 minutes.

### runSynchronously

If included, the test run will run tests synchronously, guaranteeing that all tests runs in one editor update call. Note that this is only supported for EditMode tests, and that tests which take multiple frames (i.e. `[UnityTest]` tests, or tests with `[UnitySetUp]` or `[UnityTearDown]` scaffolding) will be filtered out.

### testSettingsFile 

Path to a *TestSettings.json* file that allows you to set up extra options for your test run. An example of the *TestSettings.json* file could look like this:

```json
{
  "scriptingBackend":2,
  "Architecture":null,
  "apiProfile":0
}
```

#### apiProfile

The .Net compatibility level. Set to one of the following values:  

- 1 - .Net 2.0 
- 2 - .Net 2.0 Subset 
- 3 - .Net 4.6 
- 5 - .Net micro profile (used by Mono scripting backend if **Stripping Level** is set to **Use micro mscorlib**) 
- 6 - .Net Standard 2.0 

#### appleEnableAutomaticSigning

Sets option for automatic signing of Apple devices.

#### appleDeveloperTeamID 

Sets the team ID for the apple developer account.

#### architecture

Target architecture for Android. Set to one of the following values: 

* None = 0
* ARMv7 = 1
* ARM64 = 2
* X86 = 4
* All = 4294967295

#### iOSManualProvisioningProfileType

Set to one of the following values: 

* 0 - Automatic 
* 1 - Development 
* 2 - Distribution iOSManualProvisioningProfileID

#### scriptingBackend

 Set to one of the following values:

- Mono2x = 0 
- IL2CPP = 1 
- WinRT DotNET = 2
