Documentation~/workflow-run-playmode-test-standalone.md, before:

# Workflow: How to run a Play Mode test in player

If you run a **Play Mode** test in the same way as an [Editor test](./workflow-run-test.md), it runs inside the Unity Editor. You can also run Play Mode tests on specific platforms. Click **Run all in the player** to build and run your tests on the currently active target platform.

![Run PlayMode test in player](./images/playmode-run-standalone.png)

> **Note**: Your current platform displays in brackets on the button. For example, in the image above, the button reads **Run all in player (StandaloneWindows)**, because the current platform is Windows. The target platform is always the current Platform selected in [Build Settings](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/BuildSettings.html) (menu: **File** > **Build Settings**). 

The test result displays in the build once the test completes:

![Results of PlayMode in player test run](./images/playmode-results-standalone.png)

The application running on the platform reports back the test results to the Editor UI then displays the executed tests and shuts down. To make sure you receive the test results from the Player on your target platform back into the Editor that’s running the test, both should be on the same network. 

> **Note:** Some platforms do not support shutting down the application with `Application.Quit`, so it will continue running after reporting the test results.

If Unity cannot instantiate the connection, you can see the tests succeed in the running application. Running tests on platforms with arguments, in this state, does not provide XML test results.



For more information, see [Edit Mode vs Play Mode tests](./edit-mode-vs-play-mode-tests.md).

Commit message:

com.unity.test-framework@1.4.2 ## [1.4.2] - 2023-12-05 - Issue where playmode tests were not recording test results correctly after the first run was fixed. (DSTR-984) - A timeout message is now printed when the test failures occurs before the test finishes. (DSTR-476) - Nested enumerators are now having their first step executed in the same frame as the parent enumerator. (DSTR-888) - Fixed an issue where test projects without PlayMode tests would give the error "No callbacks received." when running in batchmode on some Unity versions.

Documentation~/workflow-run-playmode-test-standalone.md, after:

# Workflow: Running Play Mode tests in a player

If you run a **Play Mode** test in the same way as an [Editor test](./workflow-run-test.md), it runs inside the Unity Editor. You can also run Play Mode tests on specific platforms. Select **Player** tab to build and run your tests on the currently active target platform. 

![Run PlayMode test in player](./images/run-playmode-standalone.png)

> **Note**: Your current platform shows at the top of the Test Runner window. For example, in the image above, the bar above the search bar reads **Running in StandaloneOSX**, because the current platform is MacOS. The target platform is always the current Platform selected in [Build Settings](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/BuildSettings.html) (menu: **File** > **Build Settings**). 

The test result displays in the build once the test completes:

![Results of PlayMode in player test run](./images/playmode-results-standalone.png)

The application running on the platform reports back the test results to the Editor UI then displays the executed tests and shuts down. To make sure you receive the test results from the Player on your target platform back into the Editor that’s running the test, both should be on the same network. 

> **Note:** Some platforms do not support shutting down the application with `Application.Quit`, so it will continue running after reporting the test results.

If Unity cannot instantiate the connection, you can see the tests succeed in the running application. Running tests on platforms with arguments, in this state, does not provide XML test results.



For more information, see [Edit Mode vs Play Mode tests](./edit-mode-vs-play-mode-tests.md).
