Documentation~/workflow-create-test-assembly.md, before:

# Workflow: Creating test assemblies 

Unity Test Framework looks for tests in a **Test Assembly**, which is any assembly that references Nunit.

The Test Runner UI helps you set up test assemblies:

1. Select the Assets folder in your Project window.
2. Open the Test Runner window (menu: **Window** > **General** > **Test Runner**).
3. In the **Test Runner** window, select **Create a new Test Assembly Folder in the active path**.

![Test Runner window EditMode tab](./images/create-test-assembly-folder.png)

Alternatively, you can go via the **Assets** menu:

1. Select the Assets folder in your Project window.
2. Create a new Test Assembly Folder (menu: **Assets** > **Create** > **Testing** > **Test Assembly Folder**).

This creates a *Tests* folder in your project Assets with a corresponding `.asmdef` file with the required references. You can change the name of the new [Assembly Definition](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/ScriptCompilationAssemblyDefinitionFiles.html) and press Enter to accept it.

![New Test folder and assembly file](./images/test-assembly-folder.png)

Click on the assembly definition file to inspect it in the **Inspector** window. You'll see that it has references to **nunit.framework.dll***,* **UnityEngine.TestRunner,** and **UnityEditor.TestRunner** assemblies. This tells Unity Test Framework that this is a test assembly. 

The checkbox selections under **Platforms** determine which platforms the test assembly can run on. Assemblies created through the **Test Runner** target the **Editor** only by default. **Any Platform** or a specific platform other than **Editor** makes the tests you add run in Play Mode by default. 

![Assembly definition import settings](./images/import-settings.png)

> **Note**: The **UnityEditor.TestRunner** reference is only available for [Edit Mode tests](./edit-mode-vs-play-mode-tests.md#edit-mode-tests).

You can repeat the steps above as many times as you like to create additional Test Assemblies. The first Test Assembly folder you create is named *Tests* by default and subsequent ones are named *Tests 1*, *Tests 2*, and so on. Remember that you can always rename the assemblies but each assembly name must be unique.

> **Note**: Changing the file name of an assembly definition file does not affect the value of the **Name** property in the file. Use the **Inspector** window or edit the .asmdef direclty in a text editor to change the name property.

Commit message:

com.unity.test-framework@1.3.5 ## [1.3.5] - 2023-05-16 - It’s now possible to retry and repeat tests on test level, meaning as soon as the test finishs running the first iteration, we now retry or repeat it.  Command line arguments to pass to the Editor:   -  `-repeat x` runs the test x amount of times or until it fails. It is useful for testing unstable tests   -  `-retry x` if a test fails, run that test x amount of times or until it succeeds. - Fixed various documentation bugs reported via the docs user feedback system. - Fixed TestMode not being set correctly on root level of test tree (DSTP-674). - It's now possible to select browser for running WebGL player tests in player settings. (DSTR-811)

Documentation~/workflow-create-test-assembly.md, after:

# Workflow: **How to create a new test assembly** 

Unity Test Framework looks for a test inside any assembly that references [NUnit](http://www.nunit.org/). We refer to such assemblies as **Test Assemblies**. **Play Mode** and **Edit Mode** tests need to be in separate assemblies.

The [Test Runner](./getting-started.md) UI helps you set up **TestAssemblies**:

1. Select the **Assets** folder in your Project window.
2. Open the **Test Runner** window (menu: **Window** > **General** > **Test Runner**).
3. In the **Test Runner** window, the **EditMode** tab should be selected by default. Click **Create EditMode Test Assembly Folder**. 

![Test Runner window EditMode tab](./images/editmode-tab.png)

This creates a *Tests* folder in your project Assets with a corresponding `.asmdef` file with the required references. You can change the name of the new [Assembly Definition](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/ScriptCompilationAssemblyDefinitionFiles.html) and press Enter to accept it.

![New Test folder and assembly file](./images/tests-folder-assembly.png)

Click on the assembly definition file to inspect it in the Inspector window. You'll see that it has references to **nunit.framework.dll** under Assembly References, and to **UnityEngine.TestRunner** and **UnityEditor.TestRunner** under Assembly Definition References. This tells Unity Test Framework that this is a test assembly.

The checkbox selections under **Platforms** determine which platforms the test assembly can run on. Assemblies created through the **Test Runner** target the **Editor** only by default. **Any Platform** or a specific platform other than **Editor** makes the tests you add run in Play Mode by default.

> **Note**: The **UnityEditor.TestRunner** reference is only available for [Edit Mode tests](./edit-mode-vs-play-mode-tests.md#edit-mode-tests).

![Assembly definition import settings](./images/import-settings.png)

## Reference other assemblies in your Test Assemblies

To reference other assemblies from your Test Assemblies:

1. Create your Test Assembly as described above.
2. Create an Assembly Definition for the scripts you want to reference, refer to [Create an Assembly Definition asset](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/ScriptCompilationAssemblyDefinitionFiles.html#create-asmdef).
3. Add a reference to the Assembly Definition created in Step 2 to your Test Assembly, refer to [Referencing another assembly](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/ScriptCompilationAssemblyDefinitionFiles.html#reference-another-assembly).

## Additional resources

Refer to the Unity Manual page on [Assembly definitions](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/ScriptCompilationAssemblyDefinitionFiles.html) for more detail on using Assembly Definition files to manage references.
