Documentation~/workflow-run-test.md, before:

# Workflow: Running tests

There are several ways to run tests in the **Test Runner** window:

* Double-click on the test or test fixture name.
* Use the **Run All** or **Run Selected** buttons at the bottom of the window.
* Right-click on any item in the test tree and choose **Run** in the context menu to run the test and all of its children. 

When you run a test the test status icon changes to show the result and a counter in the top right corner updates:

![Run Test](./images/run-tests.png)

## Filters

If you have a lot of tests, and you only want to view/run a sub-set of them, you can filter them in several ways (see image above): 

* Type in the search box in the top left

* Click a test class or fixture (such as **NewTestScript** in the image above)

* Click one of the test result icon buttons in the top right

* Select or deselect the EditMode and PlayMode check boxes to include or exclude tests of that type.

## Running tests from the command line

You can also run a test project from the Unity command line. Here is an example in Windows:

```bash
Unity.exe -runTests -batchmode -projectPath PATH_TO_YOUR_PROJECT -testResults C:\temp\results.xml -testPlatform PS4
```

> **Note**: Use the `-batchmode` option when running tests on the command line to remove the need for manual user inputs. For more information, see Unity [Command line arguments](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/CommandLineArguments.html).

For the full list of Unity Test Framework command line arguments, see the [command line reference](./reference-command-line.md).

## Run tests within Rider

It is possible to run unit tests in the Unity Test Framework directly from [JetBrains Rider](https://www.jetbrains.com/rider/). 

For more information, see the [JetBrains official documentation](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/rider/Running_and_Debugging_Unity_Tests.html) and their blog post [Run Unity tests in Rider 2018.1](https://blog.jetbrains.com/dotnet/2018/04/18/run-unity-tests-rider-2018-1/).

Commit message:

com.unity.test-framework@1.3.5 ## [1.3.5] - 2023-05-16 - It’s now possible to retry and repeat tests on test level, meaning as soon as the test finishs running the first iteration, we now retry or repeat it.  Command line arguments to pass to the Editor:   -  `-repeat x` runs the test x amount of times or until it fails. It is useful for testing unstable tests   -  `-retry x` if a test fails, run that test x amount of times or until it succeeds. - Fixed various documentation bugs reported via the docs user feedback system. - Fixed TestMode not being set correctly on root level of test tree (DSTP-674). - It's now possible to select browser for running WebGL player tests in player settings. (DSTR-811)

Documentation~/workflow-run-test.md, after:

# Workflow: How to run a test

To run a test, you need to double-click on the test or test fixture name in the **Test Runner** window.

You can also use one of the buttons on the top bar, **Run All** or **Run Selected**. As a result, you’ll see the test status icon changed and a counter in the top right corner updated:

![EditMode Run Test](./images/editmode-run-test.png)

You may also use a context menu option **Run**, right-click on any item in the test tree to have it (with all its children if any) run. 

![EditMode Run Tests](./images/editmode-run-tests.png)



## Run tests within Rider

It is possible to run unit tests in the Unity Test Framework directly from [JetBrains Rider](https://www.jetbrains.com/rider/). 

For more information, see the [JetBrains official documentation](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/rider/Running_and_Debugging_Unity_Tests.html) and their blog post [Run Unity tests in Rider 2018.1](https://blog.jetbrains.com/dotnet/2018/04/18/run-unity-tests-rider-2018-1/).
